# 1552. [Magnetic Force Between Two Balls](https://leetcode.com/problems/magnetic-force-between-two-balls/)

For this problem, order does not effect the final result, but it do alleviate search procedure, therefore sort the given array is a must.

A common sense to deal with searching problem in a sorted array is binary search. There are two way to do binary search:

1. Search in a range of index
2. Search the target

Begin with approach 1, the issue could be think as, finding *m* balls where the *minimum distance* of all the choose *m* indexes is the *maximum differece* could get within *m* balls.

However, this approach will stuck at one scenario, *[1,...,5,...,9,..X]* when *m > 4*. If *left = 1, right = 9, middle = 5*, the advantage of decrease searching range is lost. It is hard to decide to search in *[1,...,5]* or *[5,...,9]*. If we go both directions, the time complexity will become exponential. And more importantly, going each direction still need information from another to get the target value. Therefore, approach 1 won't succeed.

Another important way to use binary search is searching the result directly.

Thus, the problem is equals to, try to find *m* balls the min-max distance equals to *target*.

1. If we cannot find such *m* balls, it means the *target* is higher than we could get.
2. If we can find such *m* balls, we could try to find another higher *target*.

The left puzzle is how to find *m* balls fit the *target* value. By greedy putting *m* balls in the position array, which minimum distance is *target*. After looping through the entire array, if there is still ball left (*m > 0*), condtion 1 meet. Otherwise condtion 2 meet.

```cpp
class Solution {
public:
    int maxDistance(vector<int>& position, int m) {
        int n = position.size();
        sort(position.begin(), position.end());
        int minMF = 1, maxMF = position[n-1], target = 0;
        
        while (minMF <= maxMF) {
            int mid = minMF + (maxMF - minMF) / 2;
       
            if (putBalls(position, m, mid)) {
                target = mid;
                minMF = mid + 1;
            } else {
                maxMF = mid - 1;
            }
        }
        
        return target;
    }
    
    bool putBalls(vector<int>& pos, int m, int mid) {
        int n = pos.size(), locMin = INT_MIN;
        for (int i = 0; i < n; ++i) {
            if (pos[i] >= mid + locMin) {
                locMin = pos[i];
                m--;
            }
        }
        
        return m <= 0;
    }
};
```
