# 99. Recover Binary Search Tree

> My original post: [IN-PLACE SOLUTION with explanation. 44ms and 28.4MB, beats 96.12% and 87.5% repectively](https://leetcode.com/problems/recover-binary-search-tree/discuss/244861/in-place-solution-with-explanation-44ms-and-284mb-beats-9612-and-875-repectively)

First of all, **Keep in mind there are only two elements place are wrong in BST**

So here are three different scenarios and its base solution for this problem:
1. One larger node locates at the left side of a subtree. try to find it, and store the larger node as ```largerNode```and its parent as ```tmpNode```. Swap the value of ```largerNode``` and ```tmpNode```.
2. One smaller node locates at the right side of a subtree. try to find it, and store the smaller node ```smallerNode``` and its parent as ```tmpNode```. Swap the value of ```smallerNode``` and ```tmpNode```.
3. Both 1 and 2 happens, swap ```largerNode``` and ```smallerNode```.

But the solution in 1 and 2 are not stable, obviously, so as 3. Considering BST [1,2,null,3]. after using current solution in case 1, the result BST is [2,1,null,3]. Recall, **only two elements place are wrong**. we need to thoroughly find every node which are larger than its parent or even higher - grandparent. But there are **Only two wrong placed elements**, image we reach TreeNode(5), and its left children or grandchildren are TreeNode(6), TreeNode(7), TreeNode(8). Swap the TreeNode(6) or TreeNode(7) cannot help us fix the BST, since TreeNode(8) is still larger than its grandparents. **Thus, for case 1, this reminder us we only need to save the largest node locates at left side of a subtree whose root has smaller value, the problem only could be solved by swapping the largest node and the subtree root (where the violation begins).** This also could be proven by contradiction, if this cannot fix BST for case 1, any other swap cannot as well.

To avoid of using any container, we only could solve it recursively, BFS or DFS. With above analysis, since we need to find the largest or smallest violation node exhaustively, DFS is the first choice. 

Recall above case 1-3 are highly depends on the given BST structure, our solution would need to try to find both ```largerNode``` and ```smallerNode```, and the make swap decision depends on whether ```largerNode``` and ```smallerNode``` is found after DFS finished.

**Another DFS feature with BST is, the search order is predefined, left or right.** Assume left first, so that the search would firstly find ```largerNode``` and then ```smallerNode```. In each DFS, we also need to update the minimal node value and maximum node vaule to check the violation for current node, and more importantly, **find largeNode as larger as possible, find smallNode as smaller as possible, which violate BST feature**. 

With above analysis, remaining issue is how to update search space in each DFS. Similarly, this also have three different scenarios:
1. No violation, using current node as a division point, search space for left children (curMinNode, curNode), search space for right childeren (curNode, curMaxNode)
2. Violate curMaxNode, which means the largeNode show at the left side of the subtree(or root). For left children, same search space as current one, due to this violation node may swap away, and we need to keep current maxNode smaller to narrow down the space for its left children. For right children, assume we may swap curNode with curMaxNode, so that the curNode becomes its grandparents, and curNode->right is its grandparent's left grandchildren but its prarent's right children, so that the search space is (curMaxNode, curNode)
3. Violate curMinNode, which means the smallNode show at the right side of the subtree (or root). Similar as 2, but with symmetry.

After all, here is the solution:

```cpp
class Solution {
    TreeNode* largeNode = nullptr;
    TreeNode* smallNode = nullptr; 
    TreeNode* tmpNode = nullptr;
    
    void swapNodeValue(TreeNode* a, TreeNode* b) {
        if (!a || !b) return;
        int tVal = a->val;
        a->val = b->val;
        b->val = tVal;
        return;
    }

public:
    void recoverTree(TreeNode* root) {
        dfs(root, nullptr, nullptr);
        if (largeNode && smallNode) {
            swapNodeValue(largeNode, smallNode);
        } else if (largeNode) {
            swapNodeValue(largeNode, tmpNode);
        } else if (smallNode) {
            swapNodeValue(smallNode, tmpNode);
        }
        return;
    }
    
    void dfs(TreeNode* node, TreeNode* minNode, TreeNode* maxNode) {
        if (node == nullptr) return;
		// this is largeNode only if it is larger than its upper limit
        if (maxNode && node->val > maxNode->val) {
            if (!tmpNode) tmpNode = maxNode;
            if (!largeNode) largeNode = node;
            if (node->val > largeNode->val) largeNode = node;
            dfs(node->left, minNode, maxNode);
            dfs(node->right, maxNode, node);
            return;
        }
		// this is smallNode only if it is larget than its lower limit
        if (minNode && node->val < minNode->val) {
            if (!tmpNode) tmpNode = minNode;
            if (!smallNode) smallNode = node;
            if (node->val < smallNode->val) smallNode = node;
            dfs(node->left, node, maxNode);
            dfs(node->right, minNode, maxNode);
            return;
        }
        dfs(node->left, minNode, node);
        dfs(node->right, node, maxNode);
        return;
    }
};
```

We only need to store ```tmpNode``` once for case 1 or case 2. When case 3 happens, we only need to swap ```largeNode``` and ```smallNode```, so that ```tmpNode```is not useful anymore.

Overall, this is a good practice to solve tree problem using recursion, with the constant space challenge (stricktly speaking, function overheads also takes space in each recursion, I'd like to say it is IN-PLACE solution). It helps me a lot to utilize tree features and DFS in problem solving. Althought it is also my most failure submissions problem so far, but it feels really great when you finally solve it on your own **:)**